How Do I Spend My Time in Quarantine?
=====================================

Tracking My Time for 10 Days in Google Calendar
-----------------------------------------------

Questions of Interest
=====================

Before starting this project, I intended to answer the following
questions: how does sleep affect my productivity the next day, how does
the time spent between each of my classes differ, and how much time do I
spend on my phone/watching TV versus other activities. I set out to
answer these questions but also looked at different variations of them
while analyzing my data.

Data collection
===============

I tracked my days in Google Calendar for 10 days. Here is an example of
part of a day I tracked:

![Tuesday, April 14](./img/12.png)

I tried to make my calendar summaries concise but with different
attributes so I could make more meaningful graphs. For example, when
describing what work I did, I wrote the class name (Data Science, Micro,
Public Choice) and the category of work (Zoom, pre-recorded lecture,
work). For my leisure time, I added a one word description like “Phone”
or “workout” and if I did something with my sister or family I included
that too.

Results
=======

In terms of tracking my leisure time, I wanted to gain insight into how
much time I was spending doing screen/non-screen activities. I first
looked at my overall leisure time and how it was spent by filtering my
calendar data set for terms like “phone,” “TV,” “workout,” “outside,”
etc. I created a basic bar graph to visualize my overall minutes spent
on these activities and saw that phone was considerably higher than all
other activities, with TV right behind it. These numbers weren’t
incredibly meaningful since they were total minutes over the 10 days,
but they were able to show that I did spend the most leisure time on
screen.

![](./img/1.png)

Next, I created new datasets and graphs to visualize exactly how many
minutes of the day my leisure time was spent doing screen/non-screen
activities and alone/with other people. My screen and non-screen leisure
time for the most part both had the same trend-increasing as the week
went on and then decreased, though screen time was always higher. The
similar trends can be attributed to the fact that my total leisure time
increases as the week goes on since I have more time on Friday-Sunday to
do non-school related things. My screen time was highest on Sunday at
550 minutes because it was the end of the week and I had no more work to
do. This number in reality should probably be higher since I didn’t
track every single time I picked up my phone, I only tracked “phone” if
I was on it for an extensive amount of time. Alone time and time with
others (in terms of leisure time) didn’t seem to have similar trends, or
any trends at all. My alone time was highest on Saturday and Sunday,
with 520 minutes on Sunday, which was interesting because I thought I
would have more time with my family on those days. However, my time with
other people was also higher, meaning my leisure time was just overall
higher on the weekend. My graphs that showed proportions of how daily
leisure time was spent show that my highest non-screen proportion of
leisure time (55%) was on Thursday, and this was because I finished my
Micro midterm and probably wanted to do other activities besides look at
a screen. Surprisingly, my highest proportion of leisure time with
people (80%) was on the first Monday, and this day was spent studying
for Micro so I am not sure why I was with my family for so much time. I
probably had less leisure time overall that day so the proportion became
higher.
